This is where all java notes are


7/11/23

Methods
  Every Java program must have a method called main(). 
  A method is a sequence of tasks for the computer to execute. 
  This main() method holds all of the instructions for our program.

Classes
  All Java programs are made of at least one class. 
  The class name must match the file
  capitalize every word, a style known as pascal case.
  Java variables and methods are named in a similar style called camel case
  where every word after the first is capitalized.
  The curly braces, { and }, mark the scope of the class. Everything inside the curly braces is part of the class.


Case-Sensitivity
  Java is a case sensative lanugae meaning that System.out.println()
  can not be written as system.out.println()
     the compiler would not know that your intention was to use System 

compiling notes -> JVM
  compilers change human written code into matchine code
  to do this in the terminal type javac Filename
  then hit enter
  if there are any errors the terminal will state what and where something is wrong.

    Compilation: Creating Executables

  If the file compiles successfully, this command produces an executable class.
  FileName.class. Executable means we can run this program from the terminal.
  We run the executable with the command: java FileName
     leave off the .class part of the filename.

  through this process you are left with 2 files a .java and a .class file
    the .java file has the human code
    the .class file has Java bytecode, ready to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine.






/**
Javadoc comments
*/ 
  Javadoc comments are used to create documentation for APIs (Application Programming Interfaces).
  avadoc comments are typically written before the declaration of fields, methods, and classes



/*
hello
*/
  This is an example of how to write a multi-line comment.


//
  these lines are used to write comments.

println vs print
  println moves the curser to the next line 
  while print just moves it forward from the previouse string.

System.out.println();
  System is a built-in Java class that contains useful tools for our programs.
  out is short for “output”.
  println is short for “print line”.

;
  all lines must end with the all mighty semicomlen!!!

7/10/23
System.out.println();
  this is how you print things.